Add vector search documentation (#9135)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _vector-search/getting-started/vector-search-options.md

---
layout: default
title: Bringing your own or generating embeddings
parent: Getting started
nav_order: 20
quickstart_cards:
  - heading: "Getting started with vector search"
    description: "Use raw vectors or embeddings generated outside of OpenSearch"
    link: "/vector-search/getting-started/"
tutorial_cards:
  - heading: "Generating embeddings within OpenSearch"
    description: "Automatically convert data to embeddings within OpenSearch"
    link: "/vector-search/getting-started/auto-generated-embeddings/"
  - heading: "Getting started with semantic and hybrid search"
    description: "Learn how to implement semantic and hybrid search"
    link: "/vector-search/getting-started/tutorials/neural-search-tutorial/"
pre_items:
  - heading: "Generate embeddings"

>     description: "Generate embeddings outside of OpenSearch using your favorite embedding utility."

Author: ```suggestion
    description: "Generate embeddings outside of OpenSearch using your favorite embedding utility"
```

  - heading: "Create an OpenSearch index"
    description: "Create an OpenSearch index to upload your embeddings."
    link: "/vector-search/creating-vector-index/#storing-raw-vectors-or-embeddings-generated-outside-of-opensearch"
  - heading: "Ingest embeddings"
    description: "Ingest your embeddings into the index."
    link: "/vector-search/ingesting-data/#raw-vector-ingestion"
  - heading: "Search embeddings"
    description: "Search your embeddings using vector search."
    link: "/vector-search/searching-data/#searching-raw-vectors"
auto_items:
  - heading: "Configure an embedding model"

>     description: "Configure a machine learning model that will automatically generate embeddings from your text at ingest time and query time."

Author: ```suggestion
    description: "Configure a machine learning model that will automatically generate embeddings from your text at ingestion time and query time."
```

    link: "/ml-commons-plugin/integrating-ml-models/"
  - heading: "Create an OpenSearch index"
    description: "Create an OpenSearch index to upload your text."
    link: "/vector-search/creating-vector-index/#converting-data-to-embeddings-during-ingestion"
  - heading: "Ingest text"
    description: "Ingest your text into the index."
    link: "/vector-search/ingesting-data/#converting-data-to-embeddings-during-ingestion"
  - heading: "Search text"
    description: "Search your text using vector search. Query text is automatically converted to vector embeddings and compared to document embeddings."
    link: "/vector-search/searching-data/#searching-auto-generated-embeddings"
---

> # Bringing or generating embeddings

Reviewer: Can this page be moved into Vector Search Basics? Im not sure it needs its own page.

Author: Having this as a separate page allows users to discover this page while scanning the left nav. Vector search basics provides info about vector search for beginners: experienced users might not look there. This page provides info about the options they have, so I think it's warranted as a separate page.

> In OpenSearch, you can either bring your own vectors or let OpenSearch generate them automatically from your data. Automated embedding generation integrated into OpenSearch reduces data preprocessing effort at ingestion and search time.

Author: ```suggestion
In OpenSearch, you can either bring your own vectors or let OpenSearch generate them automatically from your data. Letting OpenSearch automatically generate your embeddings reduces data preprocessing effort at ingestion and search time.
```

### Option 1: Bring your own raw vectors or generated embeddings

You already have pre-computed embeddings or raw vectors from external tools or services.
  - **Ingestion**: Ingest pre-generated embeddings directly into OpenSearch. 

      ![Pre-generated embeddings ingestion]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/vector-search/raw-vector-ingest.png)
  - **Search**: Perform vector search to find the vectors that are closest to a query vector.

      ![Pre-generated embeddings search]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/vector-search/raw-vector-search.png)

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Steps
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}

Working with embeddings generated outside of OpenSearch involves the following steps:

{% include list.html list_items=page.pre_items%}

</details>

{% include cards.html cards=page.quickstart_cards %}

### Option 2: Generate embeddings within OpenSearch

> OpenSearch automatically generates vector embeddings from your data using a machine learning (ML) model.

Author: ```suggestion
Use this option to let OpenSearch automatically generate vector embeddings from your data using a machine learning (ML) model.
```
